As a child, I dreamed
of becoming a ballerina.
I trained as a ballet dancer from childhood.
I was taught to give complete obedience
to the artistic director,
absolute loyalty to the dance company,
and to put ballet before everything else
in my life.
I finally realized there’s no way
to get ahead in this world
without compromise.
It just can’t be done.
Such a life is empty and unsatisfying.
The problem is, once you get into that,
you get lulled in by that glamour and glitz.
Now, down the road
when you finally see the trap
and what you got into,
it’s very hard to get out.
And I always tell young people, you know,
that it doesn’t matter how good everything
seems; it doesn’t matter how great.
There’s always a string attached—always.
And then one day,
you’re going to wake up and it’s a rope.
And you can’t cut a rope that easily
—meaning you can’t get out of the situation
once Satan has you trapped in it.
And it happens without you even realizing it.
Ballet is discipline,
and I had to figure out a way
to take that skill
and transfer it into my everyday life.
It took some time,
but I finally figured it out,
because it’s not a waste.
It’s good.
But what I had to learn
was to get out of my comfort zone.
We were in Bethel until 1987.
Jack had a job lined up when we left Bethel,
and that was good.
I couldn’t get a job
because of my physical health issues.
I probably was in bed for about five months.
Eventually, I started feeling better,
and that’s when I realized
how bad the medical bills were getting.
I just dragged myself out of bed
and went and looked for a part-time job.
Obviously, through all of this,
Jack and I just kept praying.
We knew Jehovah would take care of us.
No question about that.
Eventually, I did get a job at a law firm.
It was a good job.
I actually lasted there 30 years.
Absolutely Jehovah blessed me,
and I believe what he was blessing
were my efforts.
I didn’t quit, and I refused to compromise.
When I started seeing
that I was really learning this new skill
and I was getting good at it,
that’s when I sat down and I said:
“Well, Jehovah, I have this new skill.
I want to be able to use it for you.”
One thing led to another, and I became
a commuter Bethelite
for the Legal Department.
I’d say that about 11 years
after I had left Bethel,
I was working and all of a sudden,
I got sick again with the same thing
—complete rapid loss of weight
and all the weakness came back.
I was eventually diagnosed
as having celiac disease.
So once I changed my diet,
I just started getting better and better.
I stayed with the law firm until 2014,
and then my husband and I retired
and moved to another part of the country.
And now, currently,
I’m a remote Bethel consultant.
If you slave for the world,
you really are a slave.
If you slave for Jehovah,
in my opinion, you’re not slaving at all.
You couldn’t have a better partnership
than you and Jehovah,
and that’s how I view it.
And you’re never going to experience
Jehovah to the full
unless you put yourself out there
for him to use.
I’ve had a wonderful life
of extraordinary spiritual privileges.
There’s no career in the world
that is ever going to come close to that.